# ACARS Oxide JSON Specification

## Introduction

This document describes the JSON format used by ACARS Oxide. The JSON message will be teriminated by a newline (`\n`) character.

## Example Message

```json
{
    `decoder_information`: {
        'decoder_name': 'acars_oxide',
        'decoder_version': `1.0.0`,
    },
    'message_information': {
        'message_type': 'acars',
        'message_version': '1.0.0',
        'message_timestamp': {
            'sec': 1683893150,
            'usec': 867811,
        }
        'frequency': 136975000,
        'message_uuid': '12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789012',
    },
    'originator_type': 'aircraft',
    aircraft_ids: {
        'aircraft_registration': 'N12345',
        'aircraft_callsign': 'UA1234',
        'aircraft_hex_ident': 'A12345',
    },
    'ground_station_ids': {

    },
}

```

## Decoder Information

### Decoder Name

The `decoder_name` field is a string that indicates the name of the decoder that generated the message.

### Decoder Version

The `decoder_version` field is a `semver` formatted string that indicates the version of the decoder that generated the message.

## Message Information

### Message Type

The `message_type` field is a string that describes the type of message. The following values are valid:

- `acars`
- `vdlm2`

### Message Version

The `message_version` field is a `semver` formatted string that indicates which version of the ACARS Oxide message formatting is used.

### Message Timestamp

The `message_timestamp` field is an object that contains the timestamp of the message. The timestamp is a UNIX timestamp, and is represented as an object with two fields:

- `sec`: The number of seconds since the UNIX epoch.
- `usec`: The number of microseconds since the UNIX epoch.

### Frequency

The `frequency` field is an integer that indicates the frequency that the message was received on. The frequency is in Hertz.

### Message UUID

The `message_uuid` field is a string that contains a UUID that uniquely identifies the message. The UUID is generated by ACARS Oxide.

## Originator Type

The `originator_type` field is a string that indicates the type of entity that originated the message. The following values are valid:

- `aircraft`
- `ground_station`

The `originator_type` field is required, and the consumer of the message should use the `aircraft_ids` or `ground_station_ids` fields to gather additional data about the message originator.
